# Brute-forcing a stay-logged-in cookie
[Brute-forcing a stay-logged-in cookie](https://portswigger.net/web-security/learning-paths/authentication-vulnerabilities/vulnerabilities-in-other-authentication-mechanisms/authentication/other-mechanisms/lab-brute-forcing-a-stay-logged-in-cookie#)

# Writeup

I've taken a different route here. I'm going to write up my notes as I go through the lab instead of after solving it. I think this gives you, and future me, a thought process breakdown insted of just giving away the solution. Let's solve this together kind of thing.

### Thought Process

- Firstly we login to our account `wiener:peter` to analyze the login request.
Below is the response I got:
```
HTTP/2 302 Found
Location: /my-account?id=wiener
Set-Cookie: stay-logged-in=d2llbmVyOjUxZGMzMGRkYzQ3M2Q0M2E2MDExZTllYmJhNmNhNzcw; Expires=Wed, 01 Jan 3000 01:00:00 UTC
Set-Cookie: session=ruitoyvHZ9BwQfSTn6TXglOe0WGz0i0q; Secure; HttpOnly; SameSite=None
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
Content-Length: 0

```

- Looking closly at `stay-logged-in` cookie, looks like a value we can try to dissect and figure out how it's being constructed.

- The first thing I did was go to [Cyber Chef](https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/) and paste in the cookie value `d2llbmVyOjUxZGMzMGRkYzQ3M2Q0M2E2MDExZTllYmJhNmNhNzcw`; Turns out that this is a base64 value and the decrypted value of it is : `wiener:51dc30ddc473d43a6011e9ebba6ca770`. Nice. Whenever I see base64 in the wild, I get happy because I know I'm most likely dealing with a rookie developer and a potentially vulnerable app.

- `wiener:51dc30ddc473d43a6011e9ebba6ca770`; looks like it's constructed from the user's username then a `:` then something random. let's investigate this seemingly random string in more details `51dc30ddc473d43a6011e9ebba6ca770`.

- Pasting it into cyber chef reveals nothing. Just a regular string. hmmm.... there has to be something in that string that gives away how it's constructed.

- I passed this string to the `hashid` util which I have available in my WSL. you can easily install this using `sudo apt install hashid` on WSL or Linux. `hashid` provided me with a bunch of potential candidates for the hashing algorithm. The only one that stood out to me is `MD5` which is very common.

- Of course, a hash is irreversible. However, we have a HUGE amount of rainbow tables which can EASILY "unhash" (that's not a real word) a hashed string back to its original form. [Using this](https://md5.gromweb.com/?md5=51dc30ddc473d43a6011e9ebba6ca770) I was simply able to reverse the MD5 string and behold; It's actually our password! `peter`.

- So, the final string is basically in this format: `{BASE64_ENCODE({USERNAME}:{MD5(PASSWORD)})}`. With this knowledge, we can super simply create a PHP function that would iterate over the dictionary of passwords we have for this lab to generate potential strings that would act as the `stay-logged-in` cookie for the victim; `carlos`.

- I did all of this and something extremely weird happened. None of the values generated in the file actually worked.

- I ended up just doing the EXACT SAME logic but using Burp Suite's payload processing and sending the exact same request and it actually worked. I have 0 idea why this might be the case.

- I'll generate a new file using the same logic but in Python and we'll see if the correct payload will exist in the file generated by python or not.

- Python worked. For some reason, the same code is not producing the same results in PHP and Python! The output values of the SAME logic on the SAME value is different in both PHP and Python!! This is worthy of an investigation. This is where AI could greatly help! Let's ask Claude about the reason.


---
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler alert. The correct cookie value for me was:</summary>
  <code>Y2FybG9zOjIyOTk3OWZjZTUxNzRjMTdkNDY0NWJmODc1MmRhZTFl</code>
</details>